tiup: add document of tispark support in tiup cluster (#3611)
pingcap/docs: tispark-deployment-topology.md

---
title: TiSpark Deployment Topology
summary: Learn the deployment topology of TiSpark using TiUP based on the minimal TiDB topology.
---

> > **Note:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Warning:**
```

>

> > TiUP cluster is still an experimental feature. It is **NOT** recommended to use it in the production environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> TiSpark support in the TiUP cluster is still an experimental feature. It is **NOT** recommended to use it in the production environment.
```

> > **Warning:**
> >
> > TiSpark support in the TiUP cluster is still an experimental feature. It is **NOT** recommended to use it in the production environment.
> 
> # TiSpark Deployment Topology

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# TiSpark Deployment Topology

> **Warning:**
>
> TiSpark support in the TiUP cluster is still an experimental feature. It is **NOT** recommended to use it in the production environment.
```

This document introduces the TiSpark deployment topology and how to deploy TiSpark based on the minimum cluster topology.

> TiSpark a thin layer built for running Apache Spark on top of TiDB/TiKV to answer the complex OLAP queries. It takes advantages of both the Spark platform and the distributed TiKV cluster and seamlessly glues to TiDB to provide a Hybrid Transactional/Analytical Processing (HTAP) solution to serve as a one-stop solution for both online transactions and analyses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiSpark is a component built for running Apache Spark on top of TiDB/TiKV to answer complex OLAP queries. It brings benefits of both the Spark platform and the distributed TiKV cluster to TiDB and makes TiDB a one-stop solution for both online transactions and analytics.
```

For more information about TiSpark, see [TiSpark User Guide](/tispark-overview.md).

## Topology information

| Instance | Count | Physical machine configuration | IP | Configuration |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| TiDB | 3 | 16 VCore 32GB * 1 | 10.0.1.1 <br/> 10.0.1.2 <br/> 10.0.1.3 | Default port <br/>  Global directory configuration |
| PD | 3 | 4 VCore 8GB * 1 |10.0.1.4 <br/> 10.0.1.5 <br/> 10.0.1.6 | Default port <br/> Global directory configuration |
| TiKV | 3 | 16 VCore 32GB 2TB (nvme ssd) * 1 | 10.0.1.7 <br/> 10.0.1.8 <br/> 10.0.1.9 | Default port <br/> Global directory configuration |
| TiSpark | 3 | 8 VCore 16GB * 1 | 10.0.1.21 (master) <br/> 10.0.1.22 (worker) <br/> 10.0.1.23 (worker) | Default port <br/> Global directory configuration |
| Monitoring & Grafana | 1 | 4 VCore 8GB * 1 500GB (ssd) | 10.0.1.11 | Default port <br/> Global directory configuration |

## Topology templates

> [Simple TiSpark topology template](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/blob/master/config-templates/simple-tispark.yaml)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Simple TiSpark topology template](/config-templates/simple-tispark.yaml)
```

> - [Simple TiSpark topology template](/config-templates/simple-tispark.yaml)
> 
> - [Complex TiSpark topology template](/config-templates/complex-tispark.yaml)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Simple TiSpark topology template](/config-templates/simple-tispark.yaml)
- [Complex TiSpark topology template](/config-templates/complex-tispark.yaml)
```

> [The simple template for the TiSpark](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/blob/master/config-templates/simple-tispark.yaml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Simple TiSpark topology template](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/blob/master/config-templates/simple-tispark.yaml)
```

> [Complex TiSpark topology template](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/blob/master/config-templates/complex-tispark.yaml)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Complex TiSpark topology template](/config-templates/complex-tispark.yaml)
```

> [The complex template for the TiSpark](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/blob/master/config-templates/complex-tispark.yaml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Complex TiSpark topology template](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/blob/master/config-templates/complex-tispark.yaml)
```

> **Note:**
>
> - You do not need to manually create the `tidb` user in the configuration file. The TiUP cluster component automatically creates the `tidb` user on the target machines. You can customize the user, or keep the user consistent with the control machine.
> - If you configure the deployment directory as a relative path, the cluster will be deployed in the home directory of the user.

## Prerequisites

> TiSpark is based on the Apache Spark cluster, so before you start the TiDB cluster that contains TiSpark, you must ensure that Java Runtime Environment (JRE) 8 is installed on the server with TiSpark deployed. Otherwise, TiSpark cannot be started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiSpark is based on the Apache Spark cluster, so before you start the TiDB cluster that contains TiSpark, you must ensure that Java Runtime Environment (JRE) 8 is installed on the server that deploys TiSpark. Otherwise, TiSpark cannot be started.
```
